---
title: "iPad Pro"
date: 2020-07-12T12:17:15-04:00
draft: false
---
Intro 
Welcome to 5 minute reviews....and more, where I try to talk for only 5 minutes about a product or service. Full length reviews and product coverages are available elsewhere. Here, I’ll give you the points that stand out to me.
In this episode, I will be talking about the iPad Pro. Well, not just the iPad Pro, but the iPad Pro with the new Magic Keyboard and Apple Pencil. 
Presentation 
I have the 2020 12.9 inch iPad Pro with the new Magic Keyboard and Apple Pencil. And I want to talk about all three of these together because I think that as a set, these items transform this iPad into something wonderful. Not a computer, not an iPad, but some crazy hybrid that can be so much better than both of these. 
I considered getting an iPad for several years, but I never had a good use case for buying one. I knew I wanted the Pro, but I wasn’t sure what size. And like I said, I had no use case to buy one. What was I going to do with it. Typing wasn’t that great on a screen. There wasn’t much that made this something other than a really big iPhone. 
Enter the new Magic Keyboard and a 2013 MacBook Pro which recently ceased to function. Maybe I finally had a use case... the somewhat computer replacement, with the mobile device feel and apps. I wanted to know what apps gave the iPad its value. So, I watched 100s of YouTube videos trying to determine what people were using the iPad for and which apps suited me best. I also needed to choose a size. And while I was initially torn between the 11" and 12.9", the dysfunctional MacBook steered me towards the 12.9".  It was finally time to take the plunge. And so far, I am glad I did. 
As far as size goes, this 12.9" is perfect. Being someone who uses a 16" MacBook Pro for work, this seems like the perfect blend of compactness and usable size. The 11" would have been too small for me. If you are already using a 13" MacBook and want to go smaller, them maybe 11" is good, but I would have a hard time recommending anything other than this 12.9" version.
This new Magic Keyboard is amazing. The typing experience is very nice for a tablet case keyboard. Don’t expect this to be a hand picked keyboard for a desktop, but man is it good. I know that going from a 15" MacBook Pro for work to the new 16" MacBook Pro was a huge difference in typing. And this Magic Keyboard is very similar. Maybe this new keyboard is not the best, but the last generation keyboard sure makes it feel like it is the best. 
And I love how the case positions the iPad. Would it be nice if there were more adjustment angles, sure. But, even this short range of motion is good for me. I type mainly on my lap and on the kitchen counter. Both locations provide an acceptable angle with this new keyboard case. I do want to add that it is heavy. But it needs to be heavy so that it can keep that heavy iPad balanced. 
I do use the trackpad, but since the screen is positioned right here, I don’t have to use the trackpad that much. I think I use it more out of habit than anything else. Maybe I will not miss the grossly oversize trackpad on the 16" MacBook Pro. 
One thing, that I have noticed about my typing, is that I use the word suggestions much more frequently now that the iPad is that much closer and I can better see and touch the words. On the MacBook Pro with the touch bar, I get the suggestions, but rarely use them. It is just not a easy to touch. It is too far away from where my hands feel comfortable. And I am a terrible typist. I am not well trained at all, so this might just be me having my fingers int he wrong position all of the time.
I do like having the touch screen. I find myself touching my MacBook Pro screen now. Being able to quickly touch the screen for selecting text or positioning the cursor is great. How have I lived without this for so long? And the Apple Pencil is not that far away. It is just a quick grab to have a tool which is a little more accurate than my sausage fingers. So, selecting text, making a quick annotation, or drawing a really bad picture, is quite convenient. And that is nothing new necessarily, but the position of everything, including the pencil, just seems to be well thought out. 
As well it should be for the cost. With tax, you are looking at a roughly $1800 price tag to get a decent setup. More than a MacBook Air or 13" MacBook Pro, but I just didn’t feel good about either of those options. Both just seemed to be missing something or several somethings to make them worth the money. To me, the MacBook Pro will never live up to the iMac Pro as a power computer. So, why even get one? The iPad Pro is a powerhouse with some really nice specifications. I am definitely glad I took the plunge.
